[Music]
and now for a really deep topic the
Earth's lowest known place is the
Challenger Deep almost 36 thousand feet
below the ocean surface but however
incredible it may sound dry land also
has some extreme points which lie way
way lower than sea level and the lowest
of them previously hiding under a
massive glacier has been discovered only
recently but how about we work up to
this awesome aha moment first let me
tell you about other probably not so
deep but no less amazing places
Death Valley one of the world's hottest
and driest national parks Death Valley
knows a thing or two about extremes
snow-covered mountain peaks in the
middle of a scorching desert burning Sun
and meadows of blooming wildflowers but
the most amazing thing about Death
Valley is that it's home to the lowest
point in North America Badwater Basin
this place lies 280 feet below sea level
which is just a bit smaller than the
Statue of Liberty when you see this
surreal place for the first time you
won't believe your eyes
how come snow doesn't melt under such
Blazing Sun several moments later you'll
realize your mistake it's not snow a
huge chunk of the desert is covered with
a thick layer of salt that's been
gathering there for centuries
the Dead Sea even though it has the word
sea in its name the Dead Sea is actually
one of the most intriguing and unusual
lakes on earth you don't need any
floatation device to swim in this lake
the water is so salty and dense that its
surface will keep you afloat without any
effort from your side the Dead Sea has
the highest salt concentration among all
water bodies in the world and is eight
times saltier than any ocean the lakes
made it to this list because until
recently its surface and Shores were
considered the lowest point on dry land
the Dead Sea is on average more than
1400 feet below sea level that's
less than the height of the Empire State
Building and yes I did say until
recently and I do hope that you're
thoroughly intrigued lake baikal the
next mega deep place on land is also
covered with water because it's a
freshwater lake though Baikal is a
unique water body that contains more
than 20% of all unfrozen surface fresh
water in the world
situated in southeastern Siberia in
Russia Lake Baikal is also considered to
be the world's most ancient lake and no
wonder the thing is about 25 million
years old the amount of water in the
lake would be enough to fill the Grand
Canyon five and a half times the
Baikal's area is as large as Belgium and
almost as large as Massachusetts the
lakes total depth is more than five I
felt ours piled on top of each other
and if we talk about the lakes lowest
point below sea level at 4,000 feet it's
more than 11 football fields placed side
by side
how's that for comparison the crew
barricades
no one knows for sure how deep this cave
really is believe it or not but this
abyss may drop down to 7,200 feet
underground
imagine 17 Great Pyramids of Giza
stacked on top of each other and you'll
understand why there aren't too many
volunteers eager to explore the krubera
cave
this ancient formation is likely to be
more than five million years old it's an
almost vertical system of tunnels plenty
of which are flooded that's why if you
want to explore this wondrous place
remember to take your diving gear even
though the world's lowest natural
underground point is in the krubera cave
it's only the second deepest cave on the
planet the record holder is the very off
Keena cave which is just one Hollywood
sign deeper than the krubera cave Denman
glacier Antarctica is massive ice sheet
if
actively hides the continents mysteries
but scientists don't give up they've
been using radar equipment to crack
Antarctica's riddles and recently their
efforts have paid off previous radar
instruments set off small microwave
pulses that help researchers to sneak a
peek through the ice mass but this
method didn't allow them to measure the
full depth of some regions a new
technology called bed machines solved
this problem
that's when researchers made an
astonishing discovery stretching more
than 11,500 feet below sea level a
canyon under Denman glacier turned out
to be eight times deeper than the Dead
Sea Shores Bettman's technology allowed
scientists to combine radar readings
with the information about seismic
activity and ice floes in the region and
make this conclusion by pawning and tout
on gold mines but even though the newly
discovered Canyon under Denman glacier
is the deepest natural point on land it
doesn't mean that there are no places
deeper than that they do exist but these
places were created by people just like
the two world's deepest gold mines in
South Africa being almost the same in
size map awning and Titano mines are as
deep as 700 giraffes and filled with
complicated mazes of underground tunnels
excuse me do you really want me to say
700 giraffes okay anyway combined each
Mines tunnels are longer than the New
York subway system filled with giraffes
thousands of workers use elevators
called cages to get down to the mines
these triple deck constructions which do
look unnervingly similar to cages
transport more than 100 people at a time
by the way few people know the mines are
so deep that the rock at their bottom
can heat up to 140 degrees fahrenheit to
keep these underground temperatures from
becoming too dangerous
surface workers have to pump down ice
mix with salt
when this salted ice gets into the
shafts giant fans blow air over the
mixer
and this huge DIY AC cools the tunnels
down to an almost tolerable 85 degrees
to keep this complicated system running
above ground plants produce more than
6,000 tons of ice every day KTB borehole
but even gold mining hasn't taken people
as deep as their curiosity or shall I
say thirst for knowledge one of the
lowest underground points in the world
appeared thanks to a scientific drilling
project in Germany the main KTB borehole
that's a hole branching from the main
hole reached a mind-blowing depth of
almost 30,000 feet which is the cruising
altitude of passenger airliners filled
with giraffes down there scorching
temperatures reach 500 degrees
luckily drill heads used in the project
could withstand up to 570 degrees
otherwise the drilling wouldn't have
been possible lots of modern bore holes
though are much longer than the KTB
borehole but however long they are the
world's deepest artificial point record
belongs to drumroll please
I never mind sg3 Kola super-deep
borehole well that's a mouthful this
borehole is almost 400 feet shorter than
the longest man-made well but we're
talking about the lowest points below
sea level the Kola borehole is number
one the thing is forty thousand two
hundred thirty feet deep which is twice
as tall as Kilimanjaro the world's
tallest freestanding mountain with a
herd of giraffes on it be incredible
borehole took about 20 years to drill
the idea was to reach the Earth's mantle
or at least drill as deep into the
planet's crust as possible unfortunately
by the moment the project was closed the
hole had only reached one third of the
way through the crust the site is often
visited by curious sightseers but they
mostly leave the place disappointed all
there is to see is a welded borehole
mill fence around it's unlikely that
someone manages to squeeze into a nine
inch
white hole in any case come to think of
it most of the Earth's surface actually
lies below sea level
because oceans cover more than 70
percent of our planet during the Ice Age
some 18,000 years ago I wasn't around
sea level was more than 400 feet lower
many areas that are underwater today
used to be dry land no one knows how
much of the earth's surface will get
flooded in the future below sea level
trenches and depressions may become much
more impressive or humans will just dig
way way deeper holes hey if you learn
something new today
or just like giraffes then give the
video a like and share it with a friend
and here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life